_pages/research.md, before:

---
title: Research
permalink: /research/
header:
  image: /assets/images/amsterdam-buildings.jpg
---

<!-- **Fields:** Urban and Transportation Economics -->

<!-- **Interests:** Energy markets and climate change. Water management. Fisheries policy. The impact of environmental quality on market outcomes. -->

### Working papers

"Uber versus Trains? Worldwide Evidence from Transit Expansions" (with Marco Gonzalez-Navarro, Harrison Wheeler, and Rik Williams). [Working paper](/documents/Uber_vs_Trains.pdf). 

<!-- ## Selected works in progress -->


### Publications

"VancUber: The Effect of Ride-Hailing on Public Transportation, Congestion, and Traffic Fatalities" (with John Cairncross and Craig Palsson). *Canadian Journal of Economics*.  58: 892-939. 2025. [Published version](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/share/author/EWV8THC8DWB8NQZSNWSN?target=10.1111/caje.70023). <!-- [Accepted version](https://ir-api.ua.edu/api/core/bitstreams/2e0f37e7-3bc5-4fbf-8d0b-03310eba3976/content).  --> [Working paper](/documents/Vancouver_and_Uber.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP3/PPZ2WJ). <!-- Stable handle: https://ir.ua.edu/handle/123456789/17434 -->


"Inframarginal Travelers and Transportation Policy." *International Economic Review.* 65:1519-1550. 2024.  [Published version](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/share/author/E7CC2UJN9DHWEIIFCR35?target=10.1111/iere.12692). [Working paper](https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3424097). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E198103V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://ir.ua.edu/handle/123456789/14321 -->


"Can Behavioral Interventions Be Too Salient? Evidence from Traffic Safety Messages" (with Joshua Madsen). *Science.* 376:eabm3427. 2022. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abm3427). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/111157/1/Hall%20Madsen%20-%20Science%20-%20Accepted%20Version%20-%202022.pdf). [Online appendix](https://www.science.org/doi/suppl/10.1126/science.abm3427/suppl_file/science.abm3427_sm.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP3/MCH1EF). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/111157 -->

"Technological Change and Obsolete Skills: Evidence from Men's Professional Tennis" (with Ian Fillmore). *Labour Economics.* 73:102051. 2021. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.labeco.2021.102051). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/108262/2/Technological_change_2021_TSpace.pdf). [Online appendix](/documents/Fillmore Hall - Labour - Appendix - 2021.pdf). [Replication files](http://doi.org/10.3886/E149621V2). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/108262 -->


"Can Tolling Help Everyone? Estimating the Aggregate and Distributional Consequences of Congestion Pricing." *Journal of the European Economic Association.* 19:441-474. 2021. [Published version](https://academic.oup.com/jeea/advance-article/doi/10.1093/jeea/jvz082/5721772?guestAccessKey=7c81a42d-0138-4fbf-94bc-046eea00b320). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/104543/2/Hall%20-%20JEEA%20-%20WP%20-%202021.pdf). [Online appendix](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/104543/1/Hall%20-%20JEEA%20-%20Appendix%20-%202021.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP2/RZS1FL). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/104543 -->

"Tolling Roads to Improve Reliability" (with Ian Savage). *Journal of Urban Economics.* 113:103187. 2019. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2019.103187). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/97220/1/Hall%20and%20Savage%20-%20JUE%20-%20WP%20-%202019.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E115489V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/97220 -->

"Is Uber a Complement or Substitute with Public Transit?" (with Craig Palsson and Joseph Price). *Journal of Urban Economics.* 108: 36-50. 2018. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2018.09.003). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90811/1/Is%20Uber%20a_TSpace.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E115490V3). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/90811 -->

"Pareto Improvements from Lexus Lanes: The Effects of Pricing a Portion of the Lanes on Congested Highways." *Journal of Public Economics.* 158: 113-125. 2018. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpubeco.2018.01.003). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90640/1/PI_from_LL.pdf). [Online appendix](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90640/2/PI_from_LL-Appendix.pdf). [Replication files](http://doi.org/10.3886/E115488V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/90640 -->

"A Semi-Analytical Approach for Solving the Bottleneck Model with General User Heterogeneity" (with Yang Liu and Marco Nie). *Transportation Research: Part B.* 71: 56-70. 2015. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2014.09.016).

Commit message:

Add ride-hailing working paper and PDF
Add a new working paper entry "Ride-hailing and Urban Transportation: Evidence and Policy." to the Working papers section of _pages/research.md and add the corresponding PDF at documents/ride-hailing_and_urban_transportation.pdf.

_pages/research.md, after:

---
title: Research
permalink: /research/
header:
  image: /assets/images/amsterdam-buildings.jpg
---

<!-- **Fields:** Urban and Transportation Economics -->

<!-- **Interests:** Energy markets and climate change. Water management. Fisheries policy. The impact of environmental quality on market outcomes. -->

### Working papers

"Ride-hailing and Urban Transportation: Evidence and Policy." [Working paper](/ride-hailing_and_urban_transportation.pdf). 

"Uber versus Trains? Worldwide Evidence from Transit Expansions" (with Marco Gonzalez-Navarro, Harrison Wheeler, and Rik Williams). [Working paper](/documents/Uber_vs_Trains.pdf). 

<!-- ## Selected works in progress -->


### Publications

"VancUber: The Effect of Ride-Hailing on Public Transportation, Congestion, and Traffic Fatalities" (with John Cairncross and Craig Palsson). *Canadian Journal of Economics*.  58: 892-939. 2025. [Published version](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/share/author/EWV8THC8DWB8NQZSNWSN?target=10.1111/caje.70023). <!-- [Accepted version](https://ir-api.ua.edu/api/core/bitstreams/2e0f37e7-3bc5-4fbf-8d0b-03310eba3976/content).  --> [Working paper](/documents/Vancouver_and_Uber.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP3/PPZ2WJ). <!-- Stable handle: https://ir.ua.edu/handle/123456789/17434 -->


"Inframarginal Travelers and Transportation Policy." *International Economic Review.* 65:1519-1550. 2024.  [Published version](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/share/author/E7CC2UJN9DHWEIIFCR35?target=10.1111/iere.12692). [Working paper](https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3424097). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E198103V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://ir.ua.edu/handle/123456789/14321 -->


"Can Behavioral Interventions Be Too Salient? Evidence from Traffic Safety Messages" (with Joshua Madsen). *Science.* 376:eabm3427. 2022. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1126/science.abm3427). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/111157/1/Hall%20Madsen%20-%20Science%20-%20Accepted%20Version%20-%202022.pdf). [Online appendix](https://www.science.org/doi/suppl/10.1126/science.abm3427/suppl_file/science.abm3427_sm.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP3/MCH1EF). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/111157 -->

"Technological Change and Obsolete Skills: Evidence from Men's Professional Tennis" (with Ian Fillmore). *Labour Economics.* 73:102051. 2021. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.labeco.2021.102051). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/108262/2/Technological_change_2021_TSpace.pdf). [Online appendix](/documents/Fillmore Hall - Labour - Appendix - 2021.pdf). [Replication files](http://doi.org/10.3886/E149621V2). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/108262 -->


"Can Tolling Help Everyone? Estimating the Aggregate and Distributional Consequences of Congestion Pricing." *Journal of the European Economic Association.* 19:441-474. 2021. [Published version](https://academic.oup.com/jeea/advance-article/doi/10.1093/jeea/jvz082/5721772?guestAccessKey=7c81a42d-0138-4fbf-94bc-046eea00b320). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/104543/2/Hall%20-%20JEEA%20-%20WP%20-%202021.pdf). [Online appendix](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/104543/1/Hall%20-%20JEEA%20-%20Appendix%20-%202021.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.5683/SP2/RZS1FL). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/104543 -->

"Tolling Roads to Improve Reliability" (with Ian Savage). *Journal of Urban Economics.* 113:103187. 2019. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2019.103187). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/97220/1/Hall%20and%20Savage%20-%20JUE%20-%20WP%20-%202019.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E115489V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/97220 -->

"Is Uber a Complement or Substitute with Public Transit?" (with Craig Palsson and Joseph Price). *Journal of Urban Economics.* 108: 36-50. 2018. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jue.2018.09.003). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90811/1/Is%20Uber%20a_TSpace.pdf). [Replication files](https://doi.org/10.3886/E115490V3). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/90811 -->

"Pareto Improvements from Lexus Lanes: The Effects of Pricing a Portion of the Lanes on Congested Highways." *Journal of Public Economics.* 158: 113-125. 2018. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpubeco.2018.01.003). [Accepted version](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90640/1/PI_from_LL.pdf). [Online appendix](https://tspace.library.utoronto.ca/bitstream/1807/90640/2/PI_from_LL-Appendix.pdf). [Replication files](http://doi.org/10.3886/E115488V1). <!-- Stable handle: https://hdl.handle.net/1807/90640 -->

"A Semi-Analytical Approach for Solving the Bottleneck Model with General User Heterogeneity" (with Yang Liu and Marco Nie). *Transportation Research: Part B.* 71: 56-70. 2015. [Published version](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trb.2014.09.016).
